
### Source:
[CG](https://chat.openai.com/share/2072b717-4a53-4b01-9418-9c55a699d279)

**HTTP status code is a 3 digit numbers returned by a web server to indicate out outcome of a client's request made to the server.**
**These codes provide a standardized way for the server to communicate the result of the request back to the client**

### HTTP Status codes:

##### 1. Informational responses(1xx):
* These codes indicates that the server has received the request and is processing it. they are not common in regular web browsing.

##### 2. Successful Responses(2xx):
* These codes indicate that the request was successful and the server has fulfilled the client's request.
	* **200 OK**: Request was successful, the server is sending the requested data
	* **201 Created**: A new resource was successfully created as a result of the request
	* **204 No content**: Server successfully processed the request but there is no data.

##### 3. Redirection Responses(3xx):
* This indicated client needs to takes additional action to complete the request.
	* **301 Moved Permanently**: requested resource has been permanently moved to a different location
	* **302 Found (or 307 Temporary redirect)**: Requested resource is temporarily available at a different location

##### 4. Client Error Responses(4xx):
* This indicates that the client's request was problematic or could not be processed by the server.
	* **400 Bad Request**: Server could not understand the request due to malformed syntax
	* **401 Unauthorized**: Client's need to provide valid credentials to access the requested resource.
	* **403 Forbidden**: Client does not have permission to access the requested resource.
	* **404 Not Found**: Requested resource could not be found on the server.

##### 5. Server Error Responses(5xx):
* This code indicates that the server encountered an error while trying to fulfill the client's request.
	* **500 Internal server Error**: A generic error message indicating that the server encountered an unexpected condition.
	* **502 Bad Gateway**: Server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from an upstream server.
	* **503 Service unavailable**: Server is temporarily unable to handle the request due to maintenance or overloading.